Q1. List 5 difference between Browser JS(console) v Nodejs.

Ans- The differences between Browser JS(console) and Nodejs are as follows-

Browser JS(console):

i) Browser js is used for client side applications and it gets executed only in browser.
ii) Browser js has its access limited to the browser.
iii) Browser JS(console) has a "window" which is predefined global object which has functions and attributes, which deals with window that has been drawn.
iv) In browser, there is another predefined object called "location" that has all the information about the url we have loaded.
v) In browser JS we find another predefined global variable called "document" which consists of HTML which is rendered.
vi) Browsers may have an object named "global" which is similar to "window".
vii) Browsers do not have predefined "require" object. The user may include it in the app for asynchronous file loading.
viii) In browser JS that is client side Javascript moduling is not mandatory.
ix) Browser js runs in any engine like V8, Javascript core, Spider monkey, etc.
x) In browser js one cannot control the access of browsers for visitors.

Node js :

i) Nodejs is used for server side applications and it gets executed outside browser.
ii) Nodejs has full system access so it can read and write to file system.
iii) Node does not have a predefined "window" object because it does not extract or draws anything from a window.
iv) Node does not require "location" object as "location" object is related to a particular url that is it is for page specific.
v) Node does not have "document" object as Nodejs never has to render anything in a page.
vi) Nodejs contains "global" object which is a predefined global object. It contains several functions that are not available in browsers as the functions are needed for server side works only.
vii) Node has predefined "require" object which is used to include modules in the application.
viii) In Nodejs, everything is kept inside a module.
ix) Node js runs only in V8 engine.
x) In Node js unless a open source application is created, one can control the access of particular version of node js in which the application will run.


Q2. Watch & summary 5 points-

Ans- i. Browser renders a website by the following process-
parse html+parse CSS----->Render tree------>Layout------>Paint
ii. Parsing in html is done by-
Script execution---->tokenizer---->Tree Construction------>DOM------>Script execution
iii. For handling <script>, <style> speculative parsing is used else it will interrupt the parsing process if script or style occurs. Script tag to be kept ar bottom for uninterrupted parsing.
iv. Parsing of CSS is done then DOM and CCOM are combined to form render tree. Render tree is like a multiple tree which renders objects, styles,layers,line boxes.
v. Then layout and paint is done.

Q4. Execute the below code and write your description in txt file
a. typeof(1)
Ans- number
b. typeof(1.1)
Ans- number
c. typeof('1.1')
Ans- string
d. typeof(true)
Ans- boolean
e. typeof(null)
Ans- object
f. typeof(undefined)
Ans- undefined
g. typeof([])
Ans- object
h. typeof({})
Ans- object
i. typeof(NaN)
Ans- number

NOTE- Console output attached in github repository. 
